The next thing I wanna
talk about is guards, or
specifically guarded transitions.
What are guarded transitions?
Typically when we have a transition,
the transition tells us which states
to potentially go to next based on
the events, but
sometimes that isn't sufficient.
We want to take that transition only if
the event of course is the one received,
and if we have some sort
of condition that is true.
So this is what is meant
by guarded transitions.
And just to give you an example
over here we're gonna go back into
our main state machine that we have here.
All right, so let's say that we
have a SKIP event over here,
just in our contrived state machine.
And I want this to go to the loaded state,
which is over here, so target loaded.
But I only want it to go to the loaded
state if some condition is met.
So I'm gonna say cond for condition, and
we're just gonna be doing this inline.
We want this transition
to only be taken if
the context.count is greater than 100,
for instance.
All right, so if I go to the machine,
and we see that we have
the context over here, so
I'm going to also log the state.value.
So you see we're in the loading state and
the count is 42.
So if I send a SKIP event,
then you're going to
see that it's still going to
stay in the same loading state.
And that's because the count
is not greater than 100.
So now let's change that.
Let's say that the count either
originally is greater than 100 or
another event caused the assign action
that we learned in the previous module to
change the counts to something above 100,
so 101.
Now when we send the exact same event,
that transition will be taken, and
we will get to the loaded state.
So assigning guards to transitions
can be done inline like this,
or just like actions you could
specify it as a string too.
So we could say greater than 100.
And then we could add a configuration
option here under guards and
say greater than 100 and
provide that in right there.
So now, again, when we try the same event,
it's going to take us to the loaded state.
So those are the two ways of
specifying a condition over here.
Specifying it as a string is better for
visualizing,
cuz you can see the name
directly in the visualizer.
But if you're quickly
prototyping a state machine,
then you could easily just
specify that condition inline.